Welcome back.
That last project was a little bit overwhelming because we used a ton of libraries and a lot of data
visualizations that are very specific to a library but we haven't really touched the topic of training
the data and creating models.
So in this project we're actually going to do some machine learning.
It's gonna be a lot of fun but I want to give you a warning.
This is just a taste of what machine learning is like if this is your first time.
It might seem a little bit overwhelming but just like with anything it's all about practice and repetition
but hopefully by the end of it you will see the six step process and how it actually works.
And at the end of the day you'll also realize that it's not maybe as complicated as you might have initially
thought.
So let's get started.
The first thing we're gonna do is create a new notebook with Python 3.
Now this time around we're going to use a different dataset and a famous one when it comes to machine
learning.
It's called the IRS dataset for the iris flower.
So if I type an iris flower it's a dataset that has all this information about the iris flower that
actually has different types.
So we're going to create a machine learning model that can detect types of the iris plant.
Now luckily for us we can access this data very very easily using psychic learn psychic learn if you
remember it was another library that is really really powerful to help us with machine learning.
So all we have to do is say from psychic learn dot datasets and a psychic learn comes prebuilt with
some good datasets that you can explore on your own.
And we're just going to import the iris dataset or lowercase i just like this so that if I do Iris equals
load dot Iris just like this and I click Run oh and this should be an underscore
so we now have the data loaded and if we go back to our report we've imported the data we don't need
to clean the data we learned about that in the previous project but because psychic learn has these
data sets pre-built we can assume that it's clean data that we can use in our models.
The next step is to split the data into training set and test set.
But in order for us to do that we can use this concept of x and y in machine learning so x this capital
X usually means the inputs that we want to give to our machine learning model.
So in our case we'll say Iris dot data will be our inputs.
So that is the data that we get.
So let's actually see what that is.
Let's run.
That's the data you see that is just some massive arrays and Y is going to be the target.
So if I do dot target and I click run you'll see that this is the target.
Now what this means is we want to find or create a function that takes an X which will be our data and
outputs the Y which is the target.
That is the answer.
Now in our case these are the answers 0 1 and 2.
But if I Google Iris dataset and I go to the Wikipedia page here you'll see that the there are three
types of Iris.
This is Tulsa very see color and Virginia and each one of these is represented by either 0 1 or 2.
So if we look at our dataset this target is the types of those three Iris flower types so the target
in this case that comes pre set with the cycled learned library is this is the data of the images.
So again if I remove this and hit run this is the image.
So each list is a piece of data that represents by some parameters the iris flower and then we have
the target which is the answer is when we input this data what is the output.
Which one of the three flowers is it.
Now if I go to Kaggle
and I actually type in the iris dataset
you can see that the columns are while the length of the pedal the SEP length and then the species name
so you can see here that these are the columns that it's testing for.
And you can see these are the numbers that we get in that array and each one corresponds with different
type of the iris.
Flower
so let's get back to that.
I'm going to say that capital X is going to be our data our input and then Y lowercase y.
And this is just a standard will be our target.
Finally we actually want to get the feature name so each item in the list here is a feature.
Remember that's what these columns are these columns are the with the length of the pedal and the simple
so we can store that by simply saying feature names has the iris dot feature names again which icons
pre-built with the iris dataset and then the target names will be the iris dot target names again if
I run this
let's do feature names first
there's the columns.
And if I do target names you see that these are the three options
so up until now we've imported the data we didn't have to clean the data we haven't really split the
data yet but we're at least starting to understand our data and perhaps what it contains.
So once we've understood the data and knowing that we have this information we can now start splitting
the data into a training and data set because right now we're doing supervised learning because these
are labeled right.
We have all the data that we need and we also have the answers that we need so we can test our model
by the way before I show you how to split the data.
What do you think the type of x is.
Can you guess it's a num pie array.
Remember that library num PI that I told you allows us to use multi-dimensional arrays well underneath
the hood this dataset is a number pi array.
It's a little bit more feature rich than just a python list.
Anyway let's start to split our data.
So what we want to do here is from the cycle learn library I want to grab the model selection and in
here we're going to import the train test split.
Now what is that.
Let's google and find out.
So again if I go to the library documentation you can see that the train test split simply splits array
or matrices into random train and test subsets.
So just randomly decides for us how it's going to split the data into the training data and the test
data.
So now we can use it in an interesting way.
We can simply say X is the training dataset the X test dataset the Y train dataset and then the Y test
dataset and again we can just sign that to variables by using the train test split function that we
import and give it the X the Y and some different variables.
So for example over here if you can see we have things like test size or random state or shuffle different
variables that we want.
Again you can read this on your own.
In our case let's just say that the test size will be zero point four.
Now let's have a look at what kind of data we have now.
So if I do print x the train data and we can do dot shape here and we'll also print the test shape if
I run this it returns what we call a dimensionality of the array so that is how many rows and columns
so it's got four columns and 90 rows.
So our train data has 90 rows and our test test data has 60 rows if I change the test size here 2.5
and I click Run you see that.
Now I'm splitting the test size between 50 percent being for train 54 test.
So we can actually change things up and tried different things and manipulate the train and test data
size ideally though we want to have more train data than tests just because remember the more data we
have the better our model is going to get and this is going to be the same for the why train and the
why test variables as well.
Congratulations.
We've just split the data into training set and test set.
We now have some exciting steps ahead such as creating the model.
Let's take a break and learn how to do that in the next video.